---
layout: page
title: "Routes"
category: ref
date: 2013-06-06 16:36:26
---

Cilantro comes with a router class which supports a few different use cases. Routes are registered using a set of configuration options (below) that automatically setup a route handler to show all registered views that match and hide all views that do not.

It's primary use case is for easily registering page-level views:

```javascript
define(['cilantro.ui'], function(c) {
    var views = {
        query: new c.ui.QueryWorkflow,
        results: new c.ui.ResultsWorkflow,
    };

    c.router.register([{
        id: 'query',
        route: 'query/',
        navigable: true,
        view: views.query
    }, {
        id: 'results',
        route: 'results/',
        navigable: true,
        view: views.results
    }]);
});
```

When the app navigates to `/query/` for instance, the `views.query` view will be rendered and displayed on the page. Where on the page it is rendered is determined by two options.

- The router itself has an `el` option that defines the scope of where views will be rendered
- The route options can supply an `el` option for further limiting the scope within the router's `el`

The Cilantro `ui.main` option is used for the `el` option when initializing the primary router (it defaults to `body`).

## Example

Given a page:

```html
<body>
    ...
    <div id=main>
        <div id=region1></div>
        ...
    </div>
    ...
</body>
```

The pre-load Cilantro options would be defined like:

```javascript
var cilantro = {
    ...
    ui: {
        main: '#main'
    }
};
```

This would initialize the primary router `c.router` with it's `el` set to `#main`. Any views registered would be rendered in `#main` or in a sub-element of `#main`.

The next step is registering the routes:

```javascript
var views = {
    query: new c.ui.QueryWorkflow,
    results: new c.ui.ResultsWorkflow,
};

c.router.register([{
    id: 'query',
    el: '#region1',
    route: 'query/',
    navigable: true,
    view: views.query
}, {
    id: 'results',
    el: '#region1',
    route: 'results/',
    navigable: true,
    view: views.results
}];
```

The `el` option defined on each of the routes above define where the view will be rendered. If left undefined the view would be rendered in `#main` itself. The behavior of these two routes would simply show/hide the contents of the two views when toggling between `/query/` and `/results/`.

## Route Options

### id

A string or number that acts as a unique identifier for referencing this particular route config. This is used internally for registering routes and is used when unregistering routes.

### view

A `Backbone.View` instance that will be rendered when the route is navigated to. For lazily loading a view, an AMD module path can be defined instead that will be loaded when the route is navigated to for the first time. This is useful for views or pages that are expensive to load up front or if it's not a common route that is navigated to. This must return a `Backbone.View` instance that will be rendered once loaded.

### route

The [URL _route_](http://backbonejs.org/#Router-routes) fragment that will trigger the view to be loaded or conversely unloaded.

### navigable

Flags a route as _directly_ navigable. If `true`, the `id` can be passed to `c.router.navigate` and the fragment that is navigated to will be `route`:

```javascript
// The route with id 'query' is navigable and the fragment that
// will actually be routed to is 'query/'.
c.router.navigate('query', {trigger: true});
```

Certain Cilantro views require specific routes to be navigable. For example the `ContextActions` has a button that can be clicked to view the results. However, the button needs to know which route to navigate to for showing the results. It depends on a route being defined with an `id: 'results'` to navigate.

### el

Optional DOM selector that is contained within the router's `el`.

### Events

The views associated with a route are loaded and unloaded automatically when they match their respective route URL. There are corresponding `router:load` and `router:unload` events that are triggered on the view itself when the respective events occur. Both take the `router` instance and the current `route` that triggered the load/unload cycle.

```javascript
var MyView = Backbone.View.extends({
    initialize: function() {
        this.on('router:load', this.load);
        this.on('router:unload', this.unload);
    },

    load: function(router, route) {
        // something like.. resolving deferreds
    },

    unload: function(router, route) {
        // something like.. queue/pend deferreds
    }
});
```

## Multiple Routers

For very dynamic pages where a lot of views are loaded for a given route, it may be desirable to break up the routes per region of the page. A router can be defined that targets a specific region of the page (such as `#region1` from the example above) so all routes registered to that router are inherently scoped to that element.

From the above example, a second router could be created already scoped to `#region1` which to prevent needing to supply the `el` option on the routes themselves.

```javascript
var router1 = new c.Router({
    el: '#region1'
});

router1.register([{
    id: 'query',
    route: 'query/',
    navigable: true,
    view: views.query
}, {
    id: 'results',
    route: 'results/',
    navigable: true,
    view: views.results
}];
```

## Auto-Routing

Cilantro is designed to be a drop-in set of views for graphically interacting with a Serrano-compatible API. It does not assume it is the _only_ component on the page, nor does it assume the site as a whole is a _single-page_ app with a single entry point.

The biggest difficulty is differentiating between _in-app_ links/routes and links that go to another page on the site. The most common example of this is a navigation bar. Some of the links may be used by Cilantro's router to show a new set of views, but other links such as the home page, account management page, logout, etc. navigate away to a separate webpage on the site.

Fortunately Cilantro comes with simple solution for handling this and is turned on by default with the `autoroute` option. The processing works as follows:

- `click` events that bubble up to the document from `a` elements will be caught
- the `a.href` will attempt to be navigated to using `Backbone.history.navigate`
- only if the return value is `true`, the normal behavior of the click will be prevented

This ensures all non-Cilantro links process as normal. Also, handling these links at the document level prevents _prematurely_ processing the event in case a different parent of the `a` intended to catch the event.
